If an error occurs in our code we're either showing the full details of the error or just a simple message.
This information takes up the entire page.
In other words the entire response sent back to the browser.
If an area occurs consists of these echo statements.
But what if it's an AJAX request.
The publish button in the abdomen index sends an AJAX request to the server to publish an article and
the H2 mail returned in the response is inserted directly into the astm Al on the page replacing the
button.
The Ajax request is sent to the publish articles script which is what updates the article and returns
the response.
Let's introduce an area in here by getting the name of the published method wrong.
Now if I click the publish button we get the error details inserted into the astm Al.
The Ajax Karl simply insert whatever the responses into the table cell where the button is.
Instead of doing this we need the Ajax kalid to detect if an error has occurred on the server and handle
it accordingly.
When a web server returns a response to a browser it includes a status code for example.
Two hundred is returned.
If all is okay.
3 or 4 is used for a file that has not been changed since it was last requested and I'm sure you're
familiar with the 4 old 4 status code which means the requested file wasn't found.
Five hundred is used for a generic error on the server by default.
P HP always sends back a two hundred status code.
However we can change this using the H T T P response code function.
In the exception handler when an error occurs Let's send back the generic 500 server error status code.
Then in the Ajax call we can detect the status code.
If all is well and a 200 status code is returned the done handler is fired.
If a request fails then we can add a fail handler that will run instead.
So let's add that to the Ajax call.
And in here will just display a message saying an error occurred.
In the browser I've got the network monitor open so that we can see the requests.
If I click on the Admin Link there we can see each request and the corresponding status code.
Two hundred for the main page and so on.
We still have the error in the published article script.
So if I click the publish button now we get the error message in an alert box.
And here's the Ajax request with hey 500 error code.
If we look at this request and view the response we can see the full details of the error.
So by returning the correct status code we can handle errors in Ajax too.
And let's not forget to correct the error we introduced earlier into the publish article script.